---
qip: 213
title: MAI Bridging Parameters on Base
network: Base
status: Implemented
author: QiDao team
implementor: Guardians
implementation-date: Immediately after approval
proposal: https://vote.mai.finance/#/proposal/0xbc32545fa72ba6f53cd7512d0b133d47e23ac52c41b86d058fab11e3ca45a7ab
created: 2023-12-04
---

The goal of this proposal is to set bridging parameters for MAI on Base.

For context, please refer to the following Chain Risk documentation: https://docs.mai.finance/risks/chain-risk.

### **Parameters:**

* Minimum CTD (Circulating Supply to Chain Debt) Ratio: 100%
This means that the amount of MAI debt that can be moved out of the Base chain is restricted to zero. In simple terms, no MAI debt can leave or enter the Base chain under this parameter.
* Maximum CTD Ratio: 100%
This sets a limit on the MAI debt that can enter the Base chain from other chains to zero. Consequently, no new MAI debt from other chains can be added to the Base chain.

### **Term of Parameters:**

These parameters, if approved, will be in effect from the time of approval until the end of 2024, unless DAO votes to update beforehand.

### **Renewal requirements:**

A new DAO vote is required before the end of 2024 to either extend, or modify these parameters.

### **Impact on Base Chain:**

* The implementation of these parameters would mean that the Base chain remains an isolated deployment for the MAI stablecoin in terms of circulating MAI. No new MAI debt can enter from other chains, nor can existing MAI debt on the Base chain be transferred to other chains.
* This decision can affect liquidity, risk exposure, and the operational dynamics of MAI on the Base chain.
* The proposed parameters are intended to manage and mitigate chain-specific risks as outlined in the QiDao Chain Risk documentation and as part of the Community Strategy to Restabilize MAI, following QIP209 approval.

### **Quorum Standards**

The option with the most votes will be adopted.

### Options

* Approve proposal
* Further discussions needed
* Abstain
