---
qip: 238
title: Update Guardian Signers
network: All Chains
status: Implemented
author: Benjamin.lens
implementor: QiDao Guardians
implementation-date: Immediately after approval
proposal: https://vote.mai.finance/#/proposal/0x2f6eb75c1a905a8769c9173253bc6bd05611837e0feefab023608eb8c0a2e927
created: 2024-04-19
---

### Summary

Per [QIP197](https://vote.mai.finance/#/proposal/0xfaad5534b3c12056d6152c57824a9cde3636f5516418a3fec10bb582a5afd557), ownership of Core QiDao contracts were transferred to a Guardian safe comprised of the team, community members, as well as known DeFi builders. Taking inspiration from Aave Guardians. this was done to increase the safety profile of QiDao contracts.

This proposal aims to update who participates in QiDao Guardians.

### Abstract

The update involves replacing Hamzah Khan (ex-Polygon) with Yohaan (currently at OKX).

### Motivation

QiDao Guardians need to be active signers, so that the DAO can implement QIPs in a timely manner, and so that debt ceilings can scale with demand.

Currently, the QiDao Guardian safes are too slow at reaching quorum. Being the signer with the least signatures in the past, Hamzah Khan is the Guardian to be offboarded.

Yohaan is known to most people in the DAO. He has goodwill with our community and has been an active community member himself since the start of QiDao. Additionally, Yohaan is very involved in the DeFi space and is more than capable of exercising the role of QiDao Guardian.

### Specification

### Rationale

The change of Guardians will allow the DAO to execute changes more quickly, given the active participation expected from Yohaan.

### Technical Specification

See configurable values changed below.

### Configurable Values

Change Hamzah Khan's address for Yohaan's on all Guardian Safes.
