---
qip: 247
title:  MAI Buy-Back Mechanism to Reduce Bad Debt, bring back confidence and Enhance Treasury Efficiency
network: Optimism
status: Draft
author: Bilidly
implementor: 
implementation-date: 
proposal: 
created: 2025-03-12
---

### Summary

This proposal aims to address current challenges facing QiDao by leveraging underutilized treasury assets while gradually restoring market confidence in MAI's peg through a transparent and systematic approach.

### Context

MAI is deppeged on multiple chains (Optimism, Arbitrum etc.) and currently trading way below its treasury value on certain chains, even when focusing solely on treasury-held altcoins ("shitcoins"). This presents a unique opportunity for the protocol to leverage depressed prices to buy back MAI, reduce bad debt, and improve overall financial health at a limited cost to the treasury.

The protocol's treasury is composed of major assets (stablecoins, ETH), native token (QI), ve-assets (locked assets), and a variety of altcoins. However, many of these altcoins are depreciating in value over time, reducing their utility to the protocol. A detailed breakdown of the treasury can be found on the Transparency Dashboard (https://app.mai.finance/transparency-dashboard).

### Motivation

1. **Public Perception**: The protocol appears directionless, with no concrete plan to address depeg, leading to negative sentiment within the community.
2. **Low MAI Minting and Revenue**: Lack of confidence in protocol hinders new MAI mints on healthy chains (Base, Polygon) and is contributing to reduced protocol revenue.
3. **Depreciating Treasury Assets**: Altcoin holdings ("shitcoins") are losing value over time, further impacting treasury health.


### Specification

Introduction of MAI Buy-Back Ceiling (MBBC)

We propose implementing a mechanism where the protocol uses its depreciating altcoin holdings to buy back MAI at prices below its "fair backing" value. The purchased MAI will then be burned, effectively reducing bad debt at a very low cost, and increasing treasury backing per outstanding MAI.

Formula for MBBC

The MAI Buy-Back Ceiling (MBBC) value is defined as: MBBC = (Total Altcoin Treasury Holding) / (Net MAI Debt)

- Net MAI Debt = Total MAI debt minus treasury-owned MAI.
- Altcoin Treasury Holdings:  assets held by the treasury excluding locked ve-VELO, locked ve-AERO, USDC, ETH, WETH, ETH derivatives (wstETH, weETH, etc) and protocol native token (QI).

### Execution

1. The MBBC will be updated monthly based on the latest Transparency Dashboard data.
2. The team will execute buy-back operations at their discretion across chains until the price of MAI reaches 98% of MBBC.
3. Purchased MAI will be burned to reduce bad debt.

Example Calculation

Based on data from the Transparency Dashboard as of March 9th 2025:
- Total MAI Debt: $5.9M  
- Treasury-Owned MAI: $0.7M  
- Net MAI Debt: $5.2M  
- Altcoin Treasury Holdings (current prices): $1.15M (∼$650k BIFI, ∼$170k  OP, ∼$130k ARB etc.) 

MBBC = 1.15 / 5.2 = 0.221, while MAI is trading at 0.11 on Optimism, which means that the team would have to perform a buy-back on Optimism.

If the protocol buys back 200K MAI over the month at an average price of 15c (i.e below MBBC), this would be accretive to the treasury's value (as treasury would be reduced by $30k while net debt would decrease by 200k). The new MBBC for next month would be :

New MBBC = 1.12/5.0 = 0.224 i.e. 1.2% increase vs. the previous month.


### Rationale

#### Potential Flywheel Effect

The mechanism creates a slow but steady re-pegging effect:
1. Each month, if the weighted average purchase price is below MBBC, this increases the ratio of treasury assets to bad debt, increasing the next month's MBBC 
2. As MBBC rises over time, market participants may anticipate future buy-backs and front-run operations, accelerating re-pegging.

#### Value Accretion 

Each buy-back below "fair backing" increases the relative value of treasury backing per outstanding MAI while reducing absolute bad debt.

Altcoins become productive by reducing bad debt instead of passively losing value. QiDao team proximity with Beefy's finance (Weso from Beefy being a QiDao Communitity Guardian for a long time) might create strong conflicts of interests but we invite all stakeholders to consider responsibly and having in mind the best interests of QiDao protocol in mind.

#### Flexible Execution

The team has discretionary power to optimize buy-back operations across chains for maximum return.

#### Improved Liquidity: 

Liquidity around the ceiling price should improve significantly as MBBC acts as a floor price for market participants and market confidence grows

Preservation of Key Treasury Assets:
   - ve-assets are retained to maintain liquidity operations.
   - Major assets (stablecoins/ETH) remain available for future development funding
   - No Impact on QI Token Holders: QI in the treasury will not be sold.

### Technical Specifications


Little to none. Buybacks can be processed manually at the team's discretion when criteria are fulfilled. 

