---
qip: 220
title: Eliminate All Bad Debt on Polygon PoS
network: Polygon PoS
status: Draft
author: Tate
implementor: Guardians
implementation-date: TBU
proposal: TBU
created: 2024-01-14
---

### **Summary**

Eliminate all Polygon MAI bad debt (majority comes from Fantom chain) and make the chain more self-sufficient moving forward.

### **Abstract**

MAI currently held in the Polygon treasury will be burned. Additional treasury assets will be used to market buy 213,560 MAI on Polygon and burn them. Borrow interest on all v2 vaults will be increased to a maximum of 5%.

### **Motivation**

Polygon is the chain with the highest TVL and most circulating MAI for QiDao. 34% of all circulating MAI is on Polygon! 62% of TVL (collateral backing Mai) is on Polygon! Eliminating all bad debt on Polygon would go a long way in restoring confidence in MAI as a stablecoin. This is critical to make the protocol more efficient/profitable. The current price of MAI on Polygon is ~$0.90. In addition to being the most important chain to eliminate bad debt on (and repeg), it is one of the closest ones to already accomplishing this. Once the bad debt is eliminated it will be more straightforward to repeg MAI on Polygon if it doesn't happen automatically.

### **Rationale**

Right now there is MAI sitting ideally in the treasury that would be better off being burned. Also there are tokens sitting in the treasury from dying protocols or just small quantities and selling them would simplify the treasury. These tokens would be better used to eliminate bad debt. Lastly stablecoins sitting in the treasury have not benefitted the QiDAO in the bullrun and are actually losing value daily in the form of inflation. Using these tokens for removing bad debt is better than tokens that are more likely to appreciate significantly in the next 18 months.

### **Technical Specification**

The Polygon treasury has 11,148 MAI. These should be burned. QiDao multisig  should sell the least productive tokens for MAI on Polygon. This could/should include DYST, PEARL, RADIO, SD, BCT and stablecoins. The Polygon Celsius MAI vaults can remain so technically it will look like there is more MAI debt than circulating MAI even though there is not valuable collateral for these vaults. In the unlikely event that the CelsiusX tokens ever become worth something again the protocol would benefit. The bad debt associated with Celsius will be eliminated with the passing of this QIP.
